
# Introduction
This GitHub repository contains a project for creating a web application system Web Application that tracks and manages products developed by a company. It is written in JavaScript. This application has two parts 'backend' consisting of a RESTful API and a frontend named 'crudui' with a beautiful UI to call and use the API.

# Project technical details

1. Backend  -> directory name (backend) -> Programming Languages and Frameworks used are Node.js v18.15.0, Express.js 
2. Frontend -> directory name (crudui) -> Programming Languages and Frameworks used Angular, Angular CLI version 14.0.0.
3. API Documentation -> Swagger autogenerated documentation for RESTful API endpoints -> URL: http://localhost:3000/api/api-docs/
4. Package Manager -> npm 9.5.0

# Installation
To get started, you can clone this repository by running the following command in your terminal:
```
git clone https://github.com/marvijokhio/imbprodsys.git
```
Now, Please, follow the steps from installing dependencies to running the application for smooth operation.

# Dependencies
This project has a few dependencies that need to be installed before it can run. Therefore, run the following commands one by one in your terminal. 
```
cd IMBProdSys/backend
npm install
cd .. 
cd crudui
npm install
cd ..
npm install
```
Note: In VS Code a popup may appear asking for 
The git repository at "e:\somepath\imbprodsys" has too many active changes, only a subset of Git features will be enabled. Would you like to add "node_modules" to .gitignore? 
So Click on Yes and hit enter...

# Running the Application
Once you have installed all the dependencies, you can run the application by using the following procedure:
## Running the backend server:
1. Open the terminal and go to the backend of the project directory using the command;  

```
cd backend
```
now, type
```
npm start
```
the application's backend should be running and available at http://localhost:3000 in your browser. Now running the application's frontend follows the following procedure.
## Running the frontend:
2. Open another new terminal and go to frontend of the project using the command;  

```
cd IMBProdSys/crudui
```
now, type
```
ng serve
```
the application frontend should be running and available at http://localhost:4200 in your browser. The front end would have access to the backend server using Cors. 

If there is no error in running the application. You can go and have a look at my application as well as the documentation http://localhost:3000/api/api-docs/

Otherwise, the application's recorded video is available at https://youtu.be/0j5S3Dfvgdo
